>> Ifill: THE FIRST WAVES OF
ELATION HAVE GIVEN WAY TO
MOUNTING CRITICISM OVER THE DEAL
WITH THE TALIBAN TO FREE AN
AMERICAN PRISONER OF WAR, AND
SCRUTINY OVER HOW HE CAME TO BE
CAPTURED.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S AMBITIOUS
NEW PLAN TO CUT DOWN ON CARBON
POLLUTION BY REDUCING COAL PLANT
EMISSIONS.
TONIGHT, WE HEAR FROM THE HEAD
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY, GINA MCCARTHY.
AND FROM MISSISSIPPI TO IOWA,
PRIMARY CAMPAIGNS ARE HITTING
THE HOME STRETCH.
WE LOOK AT WHAT'S AT STAKE AHEAD
OF TOMORROW'S VOTING.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: RUSSIA CONVENED AN
EMERGENCY SESSION OF THE U.N.
SECURITY COUNCIL TODAY TO PRESS
FOR AN IMMEDIATE CEASE-FIRE IN
UKRAINE.
THE DRAFT PROPOSAL ALSO DEMANDS
A START TO PEACE TALKS, AND THE
CREATION OF HUMANITARIAN
CORRIDORS SO CIVILIANS CAN
SAFELY FLEE.
HOURS BEFORE THE U.N. GATHERING,
HUNDREDS OF PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS
ATTACKED A BORDER GUARD CAMP IN
EASTERN UKRAINE.
AMATEUR VIDEO SHOWED FLAMES AND
HEAVY BLACK SMOKE RISING FROM
THE BASE AT LUHANSK.
AT LEAST FIVE REBELS WERE
REPORTED KILLED, BUT ONE OF
THEIR COMMANDERS SAID THE BATTLE
WOULD CONTINUE.
>> ( translated ): VALERI
BULATOV, THE PEOPLE'S GOVERNOR
OF LUHANSK, GAVE THE GOVERNMENT
TROOPS AN ULTIMATUM AND THEY
HAVE TIME TO SURRENDER THEIR
WEAPONS AND GO HOME FROM THE
LUHANSK PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC.
THEY REFUSED TO DO THAT.
THAT IS WHY WE LAUNCHED SPECIAL
OPERATIONS AGAINST THEM.
>> Ifill: LATER, THE SEPARATISTS
SAID A GOVERNMENT AIR STRIKE
KILLED TWO PEOPLE.
THE MILITARY DENIED IT, AND
BLAMED THE EXPLOSION ON A REBEL
ROCKET THAT MISFIRED.
IN LIBYA, AT LEAST 20 PEOPLE
WERE KILLED IN THE LATEST
FIGHTING BETWEEN ISLAMIST
MILITANTS AND FORCES OF A
RENEGADE GENERAL.
ALMOST 70 OTHERS WERE WOUNDED IN
BATTLES IN BENGHAZI AS
HELICOPTER GUN-SHIPS ATTACKED
THE MILITANTS' CAMPS.
PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT MAHMOUD
ABBAS SWORE IN A NEW UNITY
GOVERNMENT TODAY.
THE NEW CABINET HAS THE SUPPORT
OF BOTH FATAH, FROM THE WEST
BANK, AND THE ISLAMIST MILITANT
GROUP HAMAS, WHICH CONTROLS
GAZA.
THE TWO FACTIONS HAVE BEEN
DIVIDED FOR NEARLY SEVEN YEARS.
ISRAEL CONSIDERS HAMAS A
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION, AND HAS
CONDEMNED THE UNITY MOVE.
THE KING OF SPAIN, JUAN CARLOS,
HAS ANNOUNCED HE'S ABDICATING
AFTER NEARLY 40 YEARS IN POWER.
HE'S CREDITED WITH LEADING THE
COUNTRY FROM DICTATORSHIP TO
DEMOCRACY.
MATT FREI OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: "I COME TO YOU THIS
MORNING," HE DECLARED, HIS FACE
BLOATED BY MEDICATION.
HIS VOICE FRAIL BEYOND HIS 76
YEARS.
"WITH PROFOUND EMOTION AND AFTER
DEEP THOUGHT TO TELL YOU THAT IT
IS TIME FOR ME TO STEP DOWN."
>> HE RETURNS SPAIN TO THE
FASHEST DICTATOR WHO BECAME HIS
POLITICAL GOD FATHER AND GROOMED
HIM TO BECOME A SUCCESSOR.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
>> Reporter: A YOUNG AND
NERVOUS LOOKING JUAN CARLOS
DECIDED TO TAKE SPAIN IN A
DIFFERENT DIRECTION, TO
DEMOCRACY.
NOT EVERYONE AGREED.
IN 1981, REMNANTS OF THE FRANCO
REGIME STORMED PARLIAMENT AND
TRIED TO STRANGLE DEMOCRACY.
IT DIDN'T WORK.
THE KING STEPPED IN AND STOPPED
THE COUP.
IT WAS HIS FINEST HOUR.
THE ONE THAT THE COLD EYE OF
HISTORY WILL REMEMBER WHATEVER
HAPPENED LATER, MUCH LATER.
AT HOME, JUAN CARLOS WAS JUST AS
POPULAR UNTIL 2012 WHEN A LOT OF
THINGS WENT WRONG ALL AT THE
SAME TIME.
THE KING WAS CAUGHT IN FLAGRANTE
DELICTO ON AN ELEPHANT HUNT IN
BOTSWANA WITH A GERMAN MISTRESS.
HE HAD TO BE FLOWN HOME AFTER
BREAKING HIS HIP.
ALL THIS WHILE SPAIN WAS MIRED
IN THE DEEPEST RECESSION IN
LIVING MEMORY.
THEY NEVER REALLY FORGAVE HIM.
HIS APPROVAL RATINGS PLUMMETED
AND TODAY'S ABDICATION SEEMED
LIKE THE HONORABLE WAY OUT.
WHAT HAS RESCUED THE MONARCHY IS
THE MAN WHO TAKES OVER, CROWN
PRINCE FELIPE.
TALL, HANDSOME, COMPETENT AND
MARRIED TO A JOURNALIST.
HIS JOB WILL BE TO PRESERVE
SPAIN'S BRITTLE UNITY AND HEAL
THE WOUNDS OF RECESSION. SPAIN'S
>> Ifill: THE KING SAID HE WANTS
THE HANDOVER TO TAKE PLACE EARLY
NEXT YEAR.
FIRST, THE SPANISH PARLIAMENT
HAS TO PASS A LAW SETTING UP THE
LEGAL MECHANISM FOR ABDICATION
AND ROYAL SUCCESSION.
A BRUTAL RAPE AND MURDER IN
INDIA SPARKED NEW PROTESTS BY
WOMEN TODAY IN UTTAR PRADESH
STATE.
BUT POLICE BLASTED THE WOMEN
WITH WATER CANNONS IN A BID TO
DISPERSE THE CROWD.
THE PROTESTERS WERE DEMANDING
THE STATE GOVERNMENT BE
DISMISSED.
FIVE SUSPECTS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED
IN THE ATTACK AND KILLING OF TWO
TEEN-AGE GIRLS.
THEIR BODIES WERE FOUND HANGING
FROM A TREE.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TODAY
CHARGED A RUSSIAN MAN IN A
HACKING OPERATION THAT STOLE
MORE THAN $100 MILLION
WORLDWIDE.
EVGENNY BOGACHEV ALLEGEDLY
ORCHESTRATED A RING THAT
INFECTED THOUSANDS OF COMPUTERS
WITH MALWARE TO GET PASSWORDS
AND ACCOUNT NUMBERS.
BOGACHEV IS DESCRIBED AS ONE OF
THE WORLD'S LEADING CYBER-
CRIMINALS.
HE REMAINS AT LARGE.
THE GOVERNMENT MAY BE ABLE TO
FORCE A "NEW YORK TIMES"
REPORTER TO REVEAL HIS SOURCES
IN A C.I.A. LEAK CASE.
THE SUPREME COURT DECLINED TODAY
TO HEAR JAMES RISEN'S APPEAL OF
A LOWER COURT ORDER.
HIS REPORTING IS AT THE CENTER
OF CRIMINAL CHARGES AGAINST
JEFFREY STERLING.
THE FORMER C.I.A. OFFICER IS
ACCUSED OF LEAKING CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
26 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,743.
THE NASDAQ FELL FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,237.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED A
POINT, TO FINISH JUST UNDER
1,925.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
MOUNTING QUESTIONS OVER THE DEAL
THAT FREED AN AMERICAN PRISONER
OF WAR;
THE WHITE HOUSE PLAN TO CUT DOWN
ON CARBON POLLUTION;
WE TALK WITH E.P.A. HEAD GINA
MCCARTHY AND A REPRESENTATIVE OF
THE ENERGY INDUSTRY;
PLUS, WHAT'S AT STAKE AS VOTERS
HEAD TO THE POLLS IN IOWA AND
MISSISSIPPI.
>> Ifill: IT'S BEEN TWO DAYS
SINCE THE EMOTIONAL ANNOUNCEMENT
OF SERGEANT BOWE BERGDAHL'S
RELEASE FROM HIS TALIBAN
CAPTORS.
CRITICISM OF THE DEAL, WHICH
INCLUDES THE TRANSFER OF FIVE
GUANTANAMO PRISONERS TO QATAR,
CAME SOON AFTER AND IS
INTENSIFYING.
>> Ifill: WE PICK UP ON ALL OF
THIS NOW WITH VIKRAM SINGH.
HE HELD A NUMBER OF SENIOR JOBS
IN THE DEFENSE AND STATE
DEPARTMENTS FOCUSING ON
AFGHANISTAN AND SOUTH ASIA IN
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW VICE PRESIDENT FOR
NATIONAL SECURITY AND
INTERNATIONAL POLICY AT THE
"CENTER FOR AMERICAN PROGRESS."
AND JAMES KIRCHICK IS A FELLOW
AT THE "FOREIGN POLICY
INITIATIVE," ANOTHER NON-PROFIT
POLICY ORGANIZATION.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
VIKRAM, TO YOU, IS THIS IN THE
BEST INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES?
>> YES, AND MOST IMPORTANTLY IN
THE BEST INTEREST OF BOWE
BERGDAHL AND HIS FAMILY.
WHEN SOMEBODY PUTS ON THE
UNIFORM TO FIGHT FOR AMERICA,
THAT'S A SACRED COMMITMENT AND
OBLIGATION.
OUR OBLIGATION IS TO LOOK FOR
THOSE PEOPLE AND BRING THEM
HOME.
ANYBODY WHO HAS A P.O.W./M.I.A.
FLAG SHOULD BE CHEERING FOR
BERGDAHL AND THEIR FAMILY AND
THEIR OPPORTUNITY TO BE
REUNITED.
>> Brown: JAMES?
I THINK EVERYBODY SHOULD BE
HAPPY HE'S COMING HOME, BUT THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF HIS BEING
CAPTURED IN THE FIRST PLACE ARE
NOW VERY MUCH IN QUESTION.
WE HAVE MANY OF THE MEN WHO
SERVED WITH HIM SAYING THAT HE
DESERTED.
SIX PEOPLE DIED TRYING TO SAVE
HIM AND THEN, IN RESPONSE TO
THAT, WE GAVE UP FIVE OF THE
MOST HIGHLY VALUED TERRORISTS IN
GUANTANAMO BAY.
THESE ARE NOT LOW LEVEL MEN WE
GAVE BACK TO THE TALIBAN.
SO I THINK IT'S A MUCH MORE
AMBIGUOUS STORY.
>> Brown: AND THOSE ARE THE
TWO KEY ISSUES.
START ABOUT THE FAIRNESS OF THE
EXCHANGE AND THE TALIBAN
LEADERS.
>> THERE'S A LOT THAT'S BEEN
MADE ABOUT GIVING BACK SENIOR
TALIBAN LEADERS IN AFGHANISTAN
IN EXCHANGE FOR BERGDAHL.
I WOULD SAY THIS IS A VERY GOOD
DEAL IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT WAS
GOING TO HAPPEN WITH THE TALIBAN
LEADERS IN ANY CASE.
THIS WAR IS ENDING.
THIS WILL BE THE AFGHAN BATTLE
TO TAKE FORWARD OR PEACE PROCESS
TO LOOK FORWARD, SHOULD THE
TALIBAN DECIDE TO REINTEGRATE
INTO AFGHAN SOCIETY.
THESE ARE LEADERS OF THE FORMER
TALIBAN GOVERNMENT, THE
GOVERNMENT WE WENT TO WAR WITH
BECAUSE THEY HARBORED AL QUAIDA.
THEY WERE EVENTUALLY GOING HOME
HOME IN ANY CASE.
GUANTANAMO WILL CLOSE, WE GOT AN
AMERICAN SOLDIER BACK AND
GUARANTEES THAT WILL PREVENT
THEM FROM GOING BACK AND
FIGHTING AGAINST THE AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT.
>> Brown: THERE'S NO WORRY
THEY MAY ALWAYS COME BACK INTO
THE FRAY?
>> I THINK THERE IS ALWAYS
REASON TO WORRY WHEN YOU HAVE
PEOPLE THAT ARE ENEMIES OF THE
UNITED STATES OR A PART NARE
THAT THEY WILL DO THINGS
DETRIMENTAL TO YOUR INTEREST.
I JUST DON'T THINK THOSE WOULD
OVERRIDE GETTING BOWE BERGDAHL
HOME AND MOVING TO THE
CONCLUSION OF THE AFGHAN WAR.
>> Brown: AND YOU.
WARS DON'T SAY THEY END
BECAUSE YOU SAY THEY END AND THE
PRESIDENT GIVES A DEADLINE OF
HOW TO PULL THE TROOPS OUT.
THAT'S NOT HOW THE WORLD WORKS.
IF YOUR ENEMY WANTS TO KEEP
FIGHTING, THE WAR IS STILL GOING
ON.
SO I'M NOT SO SANG WIN THAT
GUANTANAMO IS SHUT DOWN IN TWO
YEARS' TIME.
I THINK IT'S POSSIBLE IT COULD
BE OPEN INDEFINITELY.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER
ISSUE JAMES BROUGHT UP AT THE
BEGINNING, THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF
HIS CAPTURE.
DOES IT MATTER?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK IT MATTERS
AT ALL.
YOU PUT ON THE UNIFORM, THESE
THINGS HAPPEN.
WE DON'T KNOW THE CIRCUMSTANCES
OR THE FACTS AROUND WHAT
HAPPENED TO BOWE BERGDAHL.
WE'VE HEARD A LOT OF ACCUSATIONS
AND THINGS COMING OUT AND WE'LL
LEARN ABOUT THAT IN TIME AS HE
COMES BACK, BUT I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO FOCUS ON GETTING
OUR MEN AND WOMEN IN UNIFORM
HOME SHOULD THEY BE CAPTURED.
HE WAS CAPTURED, MISSING IN
COMBAT, THOUGHT TO BE CAPTURED
AND IT'S GOOD WE'RE GETTING HIM
HOME.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THE
AFGHAN WAR COME TO AN END.
WE ACHIEVED THE CORE OBJECTIVE,
GET CORE AL QUAIDA, GET OSAMA
BIN LADEN, HELP THE AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT TO FUNCTION AND BE
STABLE AND BUILD THEIR OWN
SOCIETY.
THEY'VE HAD A SUCCESSFUL
ELECTION, HELD WITH US IN THE
BACKGROUND, AND IT'S TIME FOR US
TO TRAB DIGS AND HELP THEM
CONTINUE GOING FORWARD.
>> Brown: WHAT IS THE LARGER
CONTEXT?
>> I THINK IT MATTERS IF SOMEONE
DESERTS, THEN THE AMOUNT OF
RESOURCES YOU WILL EXPEND TO GET
THAT PERSON BACK IS NOT THE SAME
AS IF HE HAD BEEN CAPTURED
FIGHTING IN THE OPEN.
CERTAINLY YOU WON'T ASK YOUNG
MEN AND WOMEN TO RISK THEIR
LIVES TO RESCUE SOMEONE WHO
KNOWINGLY LEFT THE FIGHT TO
WANDER OFF.
I THINK THAT SHOULD ABSOLUTELY
PLAY THE ROLE NOT ONLY IN THE
AMOUNT OF FORCE USED TO RETURN
HIM BUT ALSO WHAT WE WERE
WILLING TO GIVE UP.
>> Brown: DO YOU WANT TO COME
BACK ON THAT?
>> I THINK IF AND A AMERICAN
SOLDIER IS CAPTURED, IT IS
UNLIKELY YOU KNOW THE EXACT
CIRCUMSTANCES.
I THINK IT IS EXTRAORDINARILY
RISKY FOR PEOPLE TO SAY SOMEHOW
WE SHOULD NOT HAVE WORRIED ABOUT
BOWE BERGDAHL BECAUSE OF THE WAY
HE MIGHT HAVE BEEN LOST TO THE
TALIBAN.
DID HE STRAY OFF FROM PATROL AND
GET CAPTURED?
DID HE DESERT, WANDER OFF HIS
POST, WAS HE IN EMOTIONAL
DISTRESS?
SUFFERING FROM DEHYDRATION TO
JUST EXCESSIVE STRESS?
I THINK THE FIRST OBLIGATION IS
TO GET OUR PEOPLE BACK, AND THEN
WE CAN FIGURE OUT WHAT ACTUALLY
HAPPENED.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE ISSUE
THAT'S BEEN RAISED ABOUT
NEGOTIATING WITH THE TALIBAN?
THE ADMINISTRATION SAYS IT WENT
THROUGH USING THE THIRD PARTY
FROM QATAR, BUT WHAT DOES IT
LOOK LIKE TO YOU IN TERMS OF HOW
THE U.S. CONDUCTED ITSELF THAT
WAY?
>> WELL, THE UNITED STATES HAS
OFTEN NEGOTIATED WITH BAD GUYS.
WE'VE DONE THAT THROUGHOUT OUR
HISTORY.
THAT'S NOT WHAT BOTHERED ME AS
MUCH AS WE KEPT OUR AFGHAN
ALLIES IN THE DARK.
THEY ARE THE ONES THAT WILL DEAL
WITH THE BRUNT OF THIS AND THIS
WAS A TOTAL SURPRISE TO THEM
57BD NOT ONLY THEM BUT MEMBERS
OF KONG.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION DID
COMPLETELY KEEP CONGRESS IN THE
DARK, WHEN HE'S SUPPOSED TO GIVE
THEM 30 DAYS' NOTICE.
>> Brown: BUT WE HEARD THE
EXPLANATION FROM SUSAN RICE.
>> YES, AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
A GOOD PATTERN THAT THE
PRESIDENT DECIDE WHICH STATUTES
4E79S TO ACKNOWLEDGE AND WHICH
ONES HE WANTS TO IGNORE.
HE CRITICIZED PRESIDENT BUSH ON
THAT.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK?
I'M SURE THERE'S A LEGAL
ARGUMENT THAT COULD BE MADE AND
THE ADMINISTRATION HAS PROTESTED
IT.
IN THIS CASE, THE KEYIS ISSUE IS
YOU WERE TRYING TO DO A PRISONER
RELEASE AND YOU COULDN'T AFFORD
HAVING IT LEAKED AND I THINK
THEY HAVE A RATIONAL REASON FOR
THE CIRCUMSTANCES IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE.
>> Brown: GETTING BACK TO THE
WIDER CONSEQUENCES WE RAISED
ABOUT THE AFGHAN WAR COMING TO
AN END.
-- DOES THIS HAVE LARGER
IMPLICATIONS?
>> I THINK THIS IS REFLECTIVE OF
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION FOREIGN
POLICY WHICH IS, ONE, OF
RETREAT, COMING BACK FROM
AFGHANISTAN, BASICALLY LEAVING
ALL THE RESPONSIBILITIES WE HAVE
IN THAT COUNTRY.
SO WE KIND OF CLEAN UP AS WE
MOVE OUT.
SO I THINK IT'S PART OF THAT
BROADER STORY.
>> Brown: AND LAST WORD FOR
YOU.
>> MY TWO LAST WORDS ARE, ONE,
LOSING AFGHAN PRISONERS WE'VE
HAD SO LONG, WE NO LONGER HAVE S
IS PART OF A BIGGER PROCESS AND
NOT JUST A PRISONER EXCHANGE.
>> Brown: THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> Ifill: FROM THE NIGHT HE WAS
RE-ELECTED, PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
MADE CLEAR THAT CUTTING
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS WAS A
CENTERPIECE OF HIS SECOND-TERM
AGENDA.
TODAY, HIS ADMINISTRATION
UNVEILED IT'S BIGGEST EFFORT YET
TO TACKLE THE ISSUE OF CLIMATE
CHANGE, ONE LOADED WITH
POLITICAL LANDMINES AND PLENTY
OF OPPOSITION ABOUT IT'S
ULTIMATE IMPACT.
>> THIS IS NOT JUST ABOUT
DISAPPEARING POLAR BEARS OR
MELTING ICE CAPS, ALTHOUGH I
LIKE POLAR BEARS AND KNOW ABOUT
MELTING ICE.
THIS IS ABOUT PROTECTING OUR
HEALTH AND OUR HOMES.
THIS IS ABOUT PROTECTING LOCAL
ECONOMIES AND JOBS.
>> Ifill: E.P.A. ADMINISTRATOR
GINA MCCARTHY LAID OUT THE
CARBON-CUTTING PLAN, ARGUING
IT'S GOOD FOR BOTH THE
ENVIRONMENT AND THE ECONOMY.
THE 645-PAGE PROPOSAL REQUIRES
EXISTING COAL-POWERED PLANTS TO
REDUCE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
30% OVERALL, BY 2030, FROM 2005
LEVELS.
AND ALLOWS STATES TO MEET THE
TARGET BY SHIFTING TO WIND AND
SOLAR ENERGY OR JOINING CREATING
REGIONAL ANTI-POLLUTION
INITIATIVES.
>> THIS PLAN IS ALL ABOUT
FLEXIBILITY.
THAT'S WHAT MAKES IT AMBITIOUS,
BUT ACHIEVABLE.
THAT'S HOW WE CAN KEEP OUR
ENERGY AFFORDABLE AND RELIABLE.
>> Ifill: SOME COAL-PRODUCING
STATES MIGHT BE ALLOWED EXTRA
TIME TO MEET THE NEW STANDARDS,
EVEN UNTIL AS LONG AS 2018, WELL
AFTER PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS LEFT
OFFICE.
THE PRESIDENT MADE HIS CASE
SATURDAY IN HIS WEEKLY RADIO
ADDRESS, SHIFTING THE ARGUMENT
FROM SCIENCE TO HEALTH.
>> WE DON'T HAVE TO CHOOSE
BETWEEN THE HEALTH OF OUR
ECONOMY AND THE HEALTH OF OUR
CHILDREN.
THE OLD RULES MAY SAY WE CAN'T
PROTECT OUR ENVIRONMENT AND
PROMOTE ECONOMIC GROWTH AT THE
SAME TIME, BUT IN AMERICA, WE'VE
ALWAYS USED NEW TECHNOLOGY TO
BREAK THE OLD RULES.
>> Ifill: COAL AND NATURAL GAS
PLANTS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
NEARLY 40% OF U.S. CARBON
DIOXIDE EMISSIONS.
BUT THOSE EMISSIONS HAD ALREADY
DROPPED NEARLY 13% SINCE 2005,
DUE IN PART TO INCREASED USE OF
NATURAL GAS AND MORE STRINGENT
VEHICLE EFFICIENCY STANDARDS.
BUT THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
MANUFACTURERS WARNED TODAY THE
NEW RULES WILL THREATEN AMERICAN
JOBS AND INVESTMENTS.
JAY TIMMONS IS THE GROUP'S
PRESIDENT.
>> SO THE PRESIDENT'S UNILATERAL
ACTION COULD SHIFT PRODUCTION TO
CHINA AND INDIA AND THAT WOULD
MEAN A RISE IN GLOBAL GREENHOUSE
GAS EMISSIONS.
A BETTER STRATEGY WOULD BE TO
PROMOTE POLICIES THAT SUPPORT
MANUFACTURERS IN THE UNITED
STATES BECAUSE WE HAVE
DEMONSTRATED A COMMITMENT, A
COMMITMENT TO PROTECTING THE
ENVIRONMENT.
>> Ifill: AND IN A STATEMENT,
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID:
>> Ifill: ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS
GENERALLY WELCOMED THE PLAN,
ALTHOUGH SOME SAID IT DOES NOT
GO FAR ENOUGH.
AT THE SAME TIME, TWO WEST
VIRGINIA CONGRESSMEN, DEMOCRAT
NICK RAHALL AND REPUBLICAN DAVID
MCKINLEY ANNOUNCED THEY'LL
INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO BLOCK
THE E.P.A. FROM EVER PUTTING THE
PLAN INTO EFFECT.
>> Ifill: E.P.A. ADMINISTRATOR
GINA MCCARTHY JOINS ME NOW FOR
THE ADMINISTRATION VIEW.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: SO WHAT IS THE COST
HERE THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT?
WE'VE HEARD A LOT OF NUMBERS AND
THERE ARE A LOT OF ACCUSATIONS
ABOUT THE COST IN NOT ONLY
ELECTRICITY BILLS -- OUR
BILLS -- BUT ALSO IN JOBS.
>> WELL, WE PAID SPECIAL
ATTENTION TO BOTH ACHIEVING SOME
SIGNIFICANT REDUCTIONS IN
HARMFUL CARBON POLLUTION IN
PROTECTING PUBLIC HEALTH, BUT WE
ALSO LOOKED AT THE ECONOMIC
IMPLICATIONS, AND IT'S ALL IN
THE PACKAGE.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT ALA LOUING
CREATIVE AND -- ALLOWING
CREATIVE AND FLEXIBLE BY
BUILDING RENEWABLE ENERGIES,
THEY CAN LOOK AT ENERGY
STRABLTION.
TON WHOLE WE'LL GET SIGNIFICANT
REDUCTIONS OF BASHEN POLLUTION
AND OTHER IT MR.ENTS THAT IMPACT
PUBLIC HEALTH.
THIS PACKAGE CAN DELIVER UP TO
$90 BILLION IN BENEFITS BY 2030.
>> Ifill: ARE YOU SUGGESTING
THE JOBS THAT MIGHT BE LOST BY
PLANTS CLOSING WOULD BE GAINED
BY THE CREATION OF OTHER THINGS,
RENEWABLES?
>> OUR ANALYSIS DOES SHOW THAT
THERE'S GOING TO BE JOB GROWTH
THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES AS
A RESULT OF THIS PACKAGE, AND IT
ALSO SHOWS THAT STATES HAVE THE
ABILITY TO PROTECT THEIR COAL
INDUSTRY, IF THAT'S MOST
IMPORTANT TO THEM, AND TO SHIFT
OTHER STRATEGIES INTO THE MARKET
THAT WILL ACHIEVE THE CARBON
REDUCTIONS WE'RE LOOKING FOR.
>> Ifill: YOUR RESEARCH ALSO
SHOWS ELECTRICITY RATES WOULD GO
UP 4 TO 6% BY, I THINK IT'S
2020.
IS THAT NOT -- THE PRICES
INCREASING, IS THAT SHORT-TERM?
>> THAT IS A SHORT-TERM HIT AND
REPRESENTS ABOUT $4 TO $7 ON A
FAMILY'S BUDGET EVERY MONTH, BUT
IT IS VERY CLEAR THAT THAT ALL
DEPENDS ON WHAT STATES WANT TO
DO.
SO THEY CAN LOOK AT DEVELOPING
EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS THAT WILL
REDUCE AND WE SEE THAT AS A MOST
COST EFFECTIVE STRATEGY FOR MOST
STATES.
SO BY 2030 WE ARE ACTUALLY
LOOKING AT ELECTRICITY BILLS FOR
FAMILIES GOING DOWN BY 8%.
THERE IS A SHORT INVESTMENT
OPPORTUNITY WHERE BILLS COULD GO
UP A SLIGHT AMOUNT, BUT THAT'S
NORMAL FLUCTUATIONS WE SEE IN
BILLS EVERY DAY AND, IN THE END,
YOU WILL GET A CLEANER, MORE
EFFICIENT ENERGY INDUSTRY ACROSS
THE U.S., AND THAT'S GOING TO
BENEFIT EVERYBODY.
IT'S GOING TO BENEFIT PUBLIC
HEALTH, IT'S GOING TO BENEFIT
THE CLIMATE AND IT'S GOING TO
BENEFIT JOBS AND LOCAL ECONOMY.
>> Ifill: IF YOU LET STATES
BASICALLY DO WHAT THEY CAN DO TO
ADJUST DPNDING ON HOW MUCH OF A
CARBON FOOTPRINT THEY'VE, HOW DO
YOU HOLD THEM ACCOUNTABLE?
>> WE'LL TREAT IT AS ANY OTHER
RULE UNDER THE CLEAN AIR ACT.
THEY HAVE TO SUBMIT A PLAN,
TRACK IT AND IF THEY FALL SHORT
THEY HAVE TO MAKE IT UP.
WE HAVE WAYS OF WORKING WITH OUR
STATES.
OUR STATES IN THIS INSTANCE ARE
PARTNERS.
WE'RE GIVING THEM MAXIMUM
FLICKSABILITY TO DESIGN A PLAN
THAT WORKS FOR THEM, FOR THE
DIVERSE FUEL SYSTEM, FOR THE
DIRECTION THEY WANT TO HEAD IN
RENEWABLES AND EFFICIENTY, WE'RE
ALLOWING THEM MAXIMUM
FLEXIBILITY, KNOWING THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO COME TO THE
DIGITAL CABLE AND HOPEFULLY THAT
FLEXIBILITY WILL ALLOW THEM TO
DESIGN A PLAN THAT'S MEANINGFUL
FOR THEM BOTH ENVIRONMENTALLY
AND THE THE ECONOMY.
WE'LL WORK IT THROUGH.
WE ALWAYS DO.
>> Ifill: YOU'VE HAD SOME
SUCCESS, YOU'RE HALFWAY TOWARD
THE GOAL.
A LOT OF STATES SAY THEY'VE DONE
ALL THE EASY STUFF TO ALLOW THE
CUTS AND THE HARD STUFF LIES
AHEAD.
>> WE DON'T DISAGREE STATES ARE
IN DIFFICULT PLACES.
IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PLAN,
WE LOOKED AT WE HAVE RISTATE
WAS, WHAT THE DIVERSITY OF THEIR
FUEL MIX WAS, HOW MANY
RENEWABLES, WHAT THEIR INTENT
WAS WITH RENEWABLES, WHAT IS THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR EFFICIENCY, AND
WE DESIGNED INDIVIDUAL STATE
GOALS THAT WE THOUGHT WERE
REASONABLE, BUT THAT'S THE
REASON FOR A COMMENT PERIOD.
WE HAVE A 120-DAY COMMENT PERIOD
AND WE'LL EXPECT STATES TO
COMMENT ON THAT, BUT WE THINK
IT'S MORE APPROPRIATE FOR US TO
SET INDIVIDUAL STATE GOALS THAT
ARE SENSITIVE TO THE STATE'S
INDIVIDUAL CIRCUMSTANCE AND LOOK
FOR OPPORTUNITIES FOR REDUCTIONS
WHICH REMAIN IN SOME STATES YOU
CAN GET MORE AND OTHER STATES
HAVE DONE A LOT, THEY GET CREDIT
FOR THAT AND THEY DON'T DO QUITE
AS MUCH.
>> Ifill: NORMALLY IT'S ALL
ABOUT THE SCIENCE OF CLIMATE
CHANGE.
THIS TIME THERE SEEMS TO BE A
SHIFT IN BENEFITS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HEALTH AND
ECONOMIC BENEFITS.
IS THAT ON PURPOSE?
>> I THINK NORMALLY WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT SCIENCE, WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT JUST THE SCIENCE AND NOT
THE ACTIONS.
NOW THE PRESIDENT IS INTERESTED
IN MAKE SURE WE ALL GO BEYOND
THE SCIENCE, LISTEN TO WHAT IT
SAYS AND PUT THAT INTO ACTION.
E.P.A.'S RULES ARE ALL ABOUT
PROTECTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND THE
ENVIRONMENT.
CLIMATE IMPACTS PUBLIC HEALTH,
AND YOU ALSO GET REDUCKS IN
DIRECT POLLUTANTS THAT DIRECTLY
IMPACT PUBLIC HEALTH.
THIS IS REALLY BENEFICIAL FOR
THE HEALTH AND WELL BEING OF THE
AMERICAN FAMILIES.
>> Ifill: WE'LL TALK TO A
CRITIC IN A MOMENT, BUT WHAT
ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENTALISTS WHO
SAY YOU COULD HAVE PUSHED THIS
EVEN MORE?
>> I THINK WE WANT TO BE
COGNIZANT OF THE FACT THIS IS A
CLEAN AIR ACT INITIATIVE WHERE
WE'RE LOOKING AT REDUCING CARBON
IN A REASONABLE, PRACTICAL, COST
EFFECTIVE WAY.  THIS IS WHAT
WE'VE DONE.
THIS IS A LONG-TERM STRATEGY
THAT WILL MOVE US TO A BETTER
PLACE FOR CLEAN ENERGY ALL THE
WAY AROUND AND A MORE
SUSTAINABLE, EFFECTIVE AND
EFFICIENT SUPPLY.
WHAT'S MOST IMPORTANT IS WE
DIDN'T GO OUTSIDE THE BOUNDARIES
OF THE CLEAN AIR ACT.
THIS IS NOT A CLIMATE STRATEGY.
THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT STEP
FORWARD THAT ACTUALLY SHOWS
GREAT PRESIDENTIAL IN THE
COUNTRY'S LEADERSHIP SO WE CAN
HAVE THE INTERNATIONAL
DISCUSSION TO GET US TO A GLOBAL
SOLUTION.
>> Ifill: YOU HAVE BEEN
TRAVELING THE COUNTRY AS THIS
WAS COMING DOWN THE TRACK.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO DEMOCRATS
LIKE LANDRIEU IN LOUISIANA OR
ALLISON GRIMES RUNNING IN
KENTUCKY OR VIRGINIA, WHAT DO
YOU SAY TO THE SENATORS FROM
COAL STATES WHO SAY YOU'RE
HURTING US?
>> I THINK WE NEED TO WORK
THROUGH THE RULE.
IT'S COMPLICATED, BUT WE DID THE
BEST JOB WE COULD TO RECOGNIZE
THAT COAL IS IN THE MIX TODAY
AND IT IS GOING TO BE IN THE MIX
ALMOST AT THE SAME LEVELS IN
2030, BUT WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO
SEE IN 2030 IS MORE EFFICIENT
PLANTS AND YOU WILL SEE A LOT
MORE FUEL DIVERSITY WITH
RENEWABLES AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
INVESTMENTS BEING MADE.
THIS ON THE WHOLE IS GREAT FOR
THE ECONOMY AND --
>> Ifill: BUT YOU DON'T EXPECT
DEMOCRATS FROM COAL STATES BEING
WILLING TO MAKE THAT CASE?
>> I THINK THEY SHOULD LOOK AT
IT.
WE GAVE EVERY STATE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SAY WHERE THEY
WANT THE INVESTMENTS TO HAPPEN.
SOME WILL INVEST IN THE COAL
UNITS TO GET THEM MORE EFFICIENT
AND THEY'LL STAY A LONG TIME.
WE SEE THE SHIFT IN COAL FROM
ABOUT 37% OF ELECTRICITY BEING
GENERATED BY COAL TODAY TO 30%
TO 31% IN 2030.
THAT IS NOT A LARGE SHIFT, AND
WE'LL HAVE FACILITIES WHO KNOW
WHERE THEY STAND IN A CARBON
CONSTRAINED WORLD.
>WORLD.
>> Ifill: DO YOU WORRY THE
SUPREME COURT OR CONGRESS COULD
SHUT YOU DOWN ON THIS?
>> THE SUPREME COURT SPOKE TO US
ON THIS ISSUE A NUMBER OF TIMES
AND TOLD US IT'S APPROPRIATE AND
OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO LOOK AT
CARBON IN THE POTENTIAL
POLLUTING IN THE CLEAN AIR ACT.
IT'S BEEN ASKED AND ANSWERED AND
WE'RE PRETTY SAFE IN THAT
REGARD.
CONGRESS HAS THE ABILITY TO LOOK
AND SPEAK TO TISSUE.
BUT I'M STAYING IN MY LANE.
THIS IS AN ACT CONGRESS PASSED
AND GAVE TO THE E.P.A. AND GAVE
US THE RESPONSIBILITY AND
AUTHORITY TO ADDRESS POLLUTION
THAT ENDANGERS PUBLIC HEALTH.
CARBON POLLUTION IS THAT.
>> Ifill: E.P.A. ADMINISTRATOR
GINA McCARTHY, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE GET A DISSENTING
VIEW ON ALL OF THIS, FROM A
LEADING VOICE FOR MANY OF THE
POWER COMPANIES OPPOSED TO THIS
PROPOSAL.
JEFF HOLMSTEAD REPRESENTS THE
ELECTRIC RELIABILITY
COORDINATING COUNCIL, WHICH IS
MADE UP OF MAJOR ELECTRIC
UTILITIES THAT OPERATE COAL-
FIRED POWER PLANTS.
HE'S A FORMER ASSISTANT E.P.A.
ADMINISTRATOR DURING PRESIDENT
GEORGE W. BUSH'S TENURE.
HE'S ALSO A LOBBYIST AND PARTNER
WITH THE FIRM OF BRACEWELL AND
GIULIANI.
SO WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THIS
PLAN TODAY?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
FOR E.P.A. AND THE
ADMINISTRATION TO BE HONEST
ABOUT WHAT THIS IS.
IT WILL SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE
THE COST FOR U.S. RATE PAYERS,
FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO PAY
ELECTRICITY BILLS.
E.P.A.'S ARGUMENT IS, WELL, THE
RATES WILL GO UP BUT YOUR BILLS
WILL GO DOWN BECAUSE OUR PROGRAM
WILL REQUIRE YOU TO USE LESS
ELECTRICITY.
THAT IS JUST NOT VERY CREDIBLE
AND IT WILL BE EXPENSIVE TO
REDUCE CARBON AND THE REAL
QUESTION IS WHAT DO WE GET FROM
THAT?
AND THE ANSWER IS ESSENTIALLY
NOTHING, EXCEPT FOR SOMETHING
THE PRESIDENT CAN TAKE CREDIT
FOR POLITICALLY.
>> Ifill: ASSUME FOR A MOMENT
THIS WILL BE MORE COSTLY.
DO YOU SEE ANOTHER SOLUTION THAT
DOESN'T INVOLVE COST OR THAT YOU
JUST DON'T SEE A PROBLEM THAT
NEEDS TO BE FIXED?
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY WAY
TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS
WITHOUT IMPOSING COSTS.
I THINK ANY ECONOMIST WOULD
AGREE WITH THAT.
BUT I THINK THERE IS REASON, AND
WE SHOULD BE THINKING ABOUT
REDUCING CARBON EMISSIONS, BUT
IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE FOR
THE UNITED STATES TO
DISADVANTAGE OURSELVES
UNILATERALLY UNLESS WE GET OTHER
MAJOR ECONOMIES TO GO ALONG WITH
THIS, AND THAT'S A BIG PROBLEM
WITH THE PRESIDENT'S APPROACH,
AND THERE'S SOME CONCERN
ESPECIALLY IN THE INDUSTRIAL
SECTOR THAT, AS WE INCREASE THE
COST FOR INDUSTRIES, THEY WILL
HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO GO TO
PLACES THAT HAVE LOWER ENERGY
COSTS.
SO ULTIMATELY WE COULD LOSE JOBS
AND POTENTIALLY INCREASE
EMISSIONS BY SHIFTING THEM TO
OTHER COUNTRIES.
>> Ifill: THE ADMINISTRATION
PRESENTS THIS AS A LINE FROM
MORE IF YOU FEEL-EFFICIENT CARS
TO OTHER STEPS TOWARD THIS.
THEY SAY THIS IS A NATURAL NEXT
STEP.
IF IT'S NOT, WHAT SHOULD IT BE
OR SHOULD THERE BE ANY NEXT
STEP?
>> IT'S HARD TO KNOW IF IT'S THE
NATURAL NEXT STEP WHY THEY NEED
AAN AGGRESSIVE REGULATION.
IF THIS IS THE WAY THE WORLD IS
GOING THERE IS NO REASON FOR THE
E.P.A. TO HAVE A REGULATION TO
COMPEL STATES TO DO THINGS THEY
DON'T WANT TO CO.
>> Ifill: I MEAN THE NEXT
NATURAL REGULATORY STEP.
>> BUT HOW MUCH COST SHOULD BE
IMPOSED ON U.S. RATE PAYERS AND
BUSINESSES WHILE ECONOMIC
COMPETITORS CONTINUE TO USE
LOW-COST SOURCES OF ENERGY?
SO I THINK THE APPROACH THAT I
BELIEVE IN AND THAT I THINK MANY
ANALYSTS DO IS WE REALLY NEED TO
LOOK AT THIS AS A GLOBAL PROBLEM
AND IT NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED BY
WORKING WITH OUR ECONOMIC
COMPETITORS IN CHINA AND INDIA,
AROUND THE REST OF THE WORLD
THAT ARE CONTINUING TO BUILD NEW
COAL FIRED POWER PLANTS BECAUSE
THAT'S THE LOWEST COST
ELECTRICITY.
>> Ifill: AND THE ARGUMENT IS
U.S. SHOULD BE THE ONE LEADING
THE COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD
AND THEY WILL FOLLOW.
>> I'VE NEVER SEEN AN EXAMPLE
WHERE THAT WORKED.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE HISTORY OF
THE INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
AGREEMENTS OR OTHER
INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS, I
CAN'T THINK OF A CASE WHERE
SOMEBODY DADE, OKAY, WE ARE
GOING TO DISADVANTAGE OURSELVES,
PLEASE COME ALONG AND DO THE
SAME THING.
THE WAY IT ALWAYS WORKED IS THE
UNITED STATES SITS DOWN WITH
OTHER COUNTRIES, WE FIGURE OUT
COLLECTIVELY WHAT WE SHOULD ALL
DO AT THE SAME TIME AND THEN WE
DO IT.
BUT IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE
ENVIRONMENTALLY FOR US TO DO
THIS UNLESS OTHER COUNTRIES ARE
WILLING TO DO THE SAME THING.
>> ADMINISTRATOR McCARTHY SAYS
WHEN YOU DO SOMETHING LIKE THIS
YOU SPUR NEW TECHNOLOGY AND
INNOVATION AND, IN FACT, PROVIDE
THE KIND OF CERTAINTY THAT A LOT
OF BUSINESSES SAY THEY LONG FOR.
>> BUSINESSES CERTAINLY DO WANT
CERTAINTY, BUT THEY DON'T WANT
NECESSARILY A VERY COSTLY
EXPENSIVE CERTAINTY.
AND THAT'S ONE OF THE BIG
PROBLEMS WITH THE REGULATORY
APPROACH.
I HAVE A GREAT DEAL OF RESPECT
FOR ADMINISTRATOR McCARTHY AND
I THINK SHE WOULD ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THERE'S ENORMOUS
UNCERTAINTY HERE, WHAT E.P.A. IS
DOING STRETCHES THE CLEAN AIR
ACT BEYOND WHAT IT EVER
ACCOMPLISHED BEFORE, SO THIS
CREATES A LOT OF UNCERTAINTY FOR
PEOPLE BECAUSE THE WHOLE SYSTEM
IS UNTESTED AND UNTRIED.
AND THE WAY TO GET UNCERTAINTY
IS TO COME TOGETHER POLITICALLY
AND HAVE CONGRESS DECIDE ON A
WAY FORWARD THAT CAN BE MANDATED
IN STATUTE AND THAT'S THE WAY WE
WOULD HAVE CERTAINTY HERE.
>> Ifill: CAN YOU MANAGE
CONGRESS COMING TOGETHER ON
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> I THINK IT'S HARD IN THIS
CONGRESS WITH THIS PRESIDENT.
I THINK THERE IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PEOPLE TO COME TOGETHER AND
DEVELOP A SYSTEM GOING FORWARD,
BUT I DO THINK IT WOULD HAVE TO
INCLUDE THE REST OF THE WORLD AS
WELL BECAUSE AS I SAID SEVERAL
TIMES, THIS IS TRULY A GLOBAL
ISSUE.
WHAT E.P.A. PROPOSED TODAY WILL
ESSENTIALLY DO NOTHING TO
ADDRESS GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
EXCEPT SYMBOLICALLY.
>> Ifill: SPEAKING OF SYMBOLS,
WHY DO YOU THINK THE
ADMINISTRATION FOCUSED SO
HEAVILY TODAY ON HEALTH
CONCERNS, ASTHMA, CHILDREN AND
FOCUSING SO MUCH ON THOSE
ISSUES?
>> I THINK THEY BELIEVE THAT
DOING THINGS TO ADDRESS CLIMATE
CHANGE IS NOT A VERY HIGH
PRIORITY POLITICALLY, SO THEY
EMPHASIZE THESE OTHER THINGS
THAT, IN FACT, THE RULE WON'T
DO.
THESE OTHER POLLUTANTENTS THAT
ADMINISTRATOR McCARTHY REFERS
TO ARE ALREADY SUBJECT TO MANY
OTHER REGULATORY PROGRAMS.
E.P.A. BY LAW SETS STANDARDS
THAT, BY LAW, ARE REQUIRED TO
PROTECT EVERYONE, EVEN THE MOST
SENSITIVE PEOPLE.
SO TO SOMEHOW SAY THAT THIS WILL
ADD TO THAT IS JUST NONSENSICAL.
THERE ARE OTHER PROGRAMS THAT
DEAL WITH THOSE ISSUES.
>> Ifill: WELL, E.P.A. IS
EMPOWERED TO SET THE LAW AND, IN
FACT, THAT'S WHAT THE SUPREME
COURT SAID THEY OUGHT TO DO, SO
THEY'RE DOING IT, BUT YOU STILL
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH THAT?
>> WELL, I AGREE THAT EPI--
E.P.A. HAS AUTHORITY UNDER THE
CLEAN AIR ACT TO REGULATE CARBON
EMISSIONS, I DON'T THINK THERE
IS A QUESTION ABOUT THAT AFTER
THE SUPREME COURT HAS SPOKEN.
BUT THE THEY THEY'VE DONE IT
HERE IS TO REQUIRE ALL 50 STATES
TO COME UP WITH CAP AND TRADE
PROGRAM.
THE E.P.A. SAYS, WELL, STATES
CAN DO IT IN ANY WAY THEY WANT
TO, BUT IF YOU LOOK AT E.P.A.'S
ANALYSIS --
>> THEY DIDN'T SAY ALL STATES
HAVE TO DO IT.
>> ALL STATES HAVE TO HAVE THEIR
OWN PROGRAM OR BE A PART OF A
REGIONAL CAP AND TRADE PROGRAM.
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY TO
ACCOMPLISH THE REDUCTIONS.
THE IDEA THAT THE E.P.A. WOULD
MANDATE SOMETHING BY REGULATION
THAT'S AXE I BEEN REJECTED BY
THE U.S. CONGRESS IS TROUBLING
AND UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
>> Ifill: YOU DON'T THINK
THERE'S A WAY OF ALLOWING
CERTAIN STATES WITH A BIGGER
CARBON FOOTPRINT TO MEET THESE
GOALS IN DIFFERENT WAYS THAN
OTHERS?
>> I DO THINK THERE IS SOME
FLEXIBILITY ALLOWED INTO THE
CLEAN AIR ACT.
E.P.A. HAS EMPHASIZED
FLEXIBILITY WHILE NOT PAYING
ATTENTION THE ULTIMATE GOALS.
FLEXIBILITY IN REACHING AN
AGGRESSIVE GOAL IS ENORMOUSLY
EXPENSIVE AND I DON'T THINK
E.P.A. CAN DO THAT.
>> Ifill: HOW DOES SOMEONE AT
HOME MAKE SENSE OF THE NUMBERS
AND KNOW WHAT TO BELIEVE?
>> I THINK IT'S HARD.
I THINK MOST PEOPLE ARE
SKEPTICAL WHEN THE E.P.A. SAYS
HERE'S THIS REGULATION THAT WILL
SAVE YOU MONEY BY INCLIEW
CREASING YOUR ELECTRICITY RATE,
WE'LL BRING DOWN YOUR POWER
BILLS BY MAKING YOU USE LESS
ELECTRICITY.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE SKEPTICAL OF
THAT.
I THINK AS A PARTY OF ADD
GOVERNMENT THE IDEA THAT E.P.A.
WOULD DISCOVER THE NEW AUTHORITY
IN THE CLEAN AIR ACT TO MANDATE
A CAP AND TRADE PROGRAM OR
CARBON TAX IS NOT:ASSISTANT WITH
THE WAY OUR GOVERNMENT NORMALLY
WORKS.
>> JEFF HOLMSTEAD OF THE
ELECTRIC RELIABILITY
COORDINATING COUNCIL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK WITH A
PREVIEW OF TOMORROW'S PRIMARIES
WITH POLITICAL EDITOR DOMENICO
MONTANARO, BUT FIRST, IT'S
PLEDGE WEEK ON P.B.S.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
AND THAT
>> Ifill: WE TURN TO POLITICS
NOW, WITH A PREVIEW OF TWO OF
TOMORROW'S CLOSELY WATCHED
PRIMARIES.
VOTERS WILL BE HEADING TO THE
POLLS IN EIGHT STATES.
AMONG THEM MISSISSIPPI AND IOWA,
WHERE REPUBLICANS ARE BATTLING
FOR THEIR PARTY'S NOMINATION.
JOINING US TO LOOK AT THESE
LATEST MIDTERM TESTS, IS
NEWSHOUR POLITICAL EDITOR
DOMENICO MONTANARO.
OKAY.
MARCH US THROUGH IT AGAIN,
DOMENICO, STARTING IN
MISSISSIPPI, THAD COCHRAN,
MEMBER OF THE SENATE, WELL
KNOWN, POP MARKS IN A TIGHT
FIGHT.
>> THAT MAY BE THE REASON.
FIRST AND FOREMOST, THE WHITE
HAIR, SOMEBODY WHO'S BEEN AROUND
40 YEARS IN CONGRESS, THE SECOND
MOST SENIOR REPUBLICAN IN THE
SENATE AND THAT'S PART OF THE
PROBLEM.
HE SPENT AS MANY YEARS IN
CONGRESS AS HIS OPPONENT IS OLD.
HE'S 42, RUNNING AGAINST THEM,
BEEN IN THERE IN CONGRESS THE
SAME AMOUNT OF TIME.
A LOT OF CONSERVATIVES DON'T
LIKE THE VOTE THAD HAS TAKEN BY
MOSTLY IT'S AN ISSUE OF STYLE.
HE'S ABOUT BRINGING HOME THE
BACON AND ALSO WORKING WITH
DEMOCRATS.
PART OF THE OLD STRUCTURE OF THE
SENATE, THE CLUB, EVERYBODY GETS
ALONG BEING CIVIL.
THEY WANT SOMEBODY WHO'S MORE OF
A LIGHTER AND STATE SENATOR
CHRIS McDANIEL WHO RUNS
AGAINST HIM PROVIDES THAT.
>> Ifill: HE'S 76.
YES.
>> Ifill: HOW IS CHRIS
McDANIEL MAKING THIS WORK?
>> HE'S A STATE SENATOR BUT ALSO
OUTSPOKEN CONSERVATIVE RADIO
TALK SHOW HOST IN THE STATE WHO
SAID A LOT OF CONTROVERSIAL
THINGS.
THIS IS ONE OF THE THINGS WHERE
REPUBLICAN ESTABLISHMENT TYPES
IN WASHINGTON ARE A LITTLE
WORRIED.
AGAIN, PICKED UP STEAM IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS.
IF HE WERE TO WIN, THEY ARE
EQUATING HIM TO A POSSIBLE TODD
AKIN LIKE IN THE LAST ELECTION
CYCLE.
THE DEMOCRATS HAS CHILDERS,
CORRECTION CONGRESSMAN RUNNING
THERE.
THE REPUBLICAN MEMBERS ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO WIND UP ANSWERING FOR
SOME OF McDANIEL'S PAST
STATEMENTS.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT MCDANIELS,
HE'S NOT HAD AN UNBLEMISHED
CAMPAIGN.
>> THAT'S TRUE AND THE BIG
SCANDAL THAT HAPPENED IN THE
STATE IS FOUR McDANIEL
SUPPORTERS WERE ARRESTED FOR
ILLEGALLY TAKING PICTURES
ALLEGEDLY OF COCHRAN'S WIFE WHO
WAS BED RIDDEN IN THE NURSING
HOME AND HAS BEEN THERE FOR
YEARS.
THEY SAY HE SHOULD BE MORE BY
HER SIDE AND HE LIVES IN
VIRGINIA AND WASHINGTON, D.C.
INSTEAD OF BEING HOME WITH HIS
WIFE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE DIDN'T THINK
THAT WENT OVER SO WELL.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THOUGHT THAT
WOULD BE THE FINAL THING FOR
COCHRAN TO WIN BUT POLLS HAVE
SHOWN A TIGHTER RACE.
>> Ifill: IN IOWA, JONI ERNST.
SHE PICKED UP STEAM MOSTLY
BECAUSE OF AN AD SHE'S RUNNING
THIS TIME AROUND.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF IT.
>> I'M JONI ERNST, I GREW UP
CASTRATING HOGS ON AN IOWA FARM
SO WHEN I GET TO WASHINGTON,
I'LL KNOW HOW TO CUT PORK.
WASHINGTON IS FULL OF BIG
SPENDERS, LET'S MAKE THEM
SQUEAL.
>> Ifill: I JUST DON'T KNOW
WHAT TO SAY TO THAT.
>> NOBODY KNEW WHO SHE WAS,
FRANKLY, BEFORE THIS, MARK
JACOBS IS A WEALTHY BUSINESSMAN.
REPUBLICANS IN D.C. LOVED HIM
BECAUSE HE COULD FUND HIS OWN
CAMPAIGN.
JONI KNOCKS IT TO THE TOP WITH
THIS AD.
SHE'S 30% OF GOLD STANDARD POLLS
IN IOWA, 18 FOR JACOBS.
35% IS WHAT THE CANDIDATE HAS TO
HAVE TO MOVE PAST NOMINATION.
IF SHE DOESN'T CLEAR 36%, IT
WOULD GO TO A STATE CONVENTION
WHERE 2,000 ACTIVISTS WOULD PICK
THE NOMINEE, SO FORGET THE
CAMPAIGN AND THE MILLIONS SPENT,
IT WOULD COME DOWN TO THE
ACTIVISTS.
>> Ifill: HARPER APPEAL IS HER
APPEAL TO PEOPLE WITH NATIONAL
FIGURES IN THE PARTY.
SARAH PALIN, WHEN SHE ENDORSED
JONI ERNST, THAT'S THE FIRST
TIME I HEARD HER NAME.
>> WHEN SOMEONE LOOKS LIKE A
WINNER, EVERYBODY GETS ON BOARD.
>> Ifill: MITT ROMNEY IS
THERE.
>> SHE'S ONE OF THE RARE WHO HAS
TEA PARTY SUPPORT AND THE
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.
>> Ifill: THERE'S DEMOCRAT IN
THIS.
>> BRUCE.
THIS IS OPEN BECAUSE TOM HARKIN
IS RETIRING, ONE OF THE
ARCHITECTS OF PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
HEALTHCARE LAW, HE'S LEAVING THE
SENATE AND BRUCE BRAY WHO IS A
CONGRESSMAN FROM THE STATE AND
ALSO A FORMER TRIAL LAWYER, HE'S
FAVORED BY A FEW POINTS, BUT A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING ERNST
COULD BRING SOME OF THE ENERGY
TO THE RACE THAT COULD MAKE IT
DIFFICULT FOR BRAILEY TO RUN
AGAINST SOMEONE LIKE HER.
SENATOR CHUCK GRASSLEY, THE
OTHER IOWA SENATOR, A FARMER WHO
WOULD CHAIR THE JUDICIARY
RICOMMITTEE, WHAT DOES HE KNOW?
WELL, HERE COMES ERNST WITH HER
LET'S MAKE THEM SQUEAL ADD.
>> Ifill: "JUST A FARMER"
ISN'T CONSIDERED TO BE AN
INSULT.
>> NO, IT ISN'T.
>> Ifill: THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA FACED GROWING
CRITICISM OVER TRADING FIVE TOP
TALIBAN INMATES AT GUANTANAMO
FOR THE WEEKEND RELEASE OF ARMY
SERGEANT BOWE BERGDAHL.
THE ADMINISTRATION ROLLED OUT A
MAJOR EFFORT TO CUT CARBON
DIOXIDE EMISSIONS FROM POWER
PLANTS.
SOME COAL-STATE LAWMAKERS AND
INDUSTRY GROUPS SAID THEY'D TRY
TO BLOCK THE PLAN.
AND THE SEATTLE CITY COUNCIL
PASSED A MEASURE THAT WOULD
PHASE IN A $15 MINIMUM WAGE, THE
HIGHEST IN THE NATION.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, SHOULD GOVERNMENT BAN THE
USE OF FOOD STAMPS FOR SUGARY
DRINKS?
RESEARCHERS AT STANFORD HAVE
FOUND THAT COULD REDUCE CASES OF
TYPE-TWO DIABETES AND OBESITY.
READ ABOUT THE REPORT, WHICH WAS
PUBLISHED TODAY IN HEALTH
AFFAIRS, ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND AGAIN, TO OUR HONOR ROLL OF
AMERICAN SERVICE PERSONNEL
KILLED IN THE AFGHANISTAN
CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, IS ONE MORE.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, WITH A
LOOK AT THE POLITICS OF COAL.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.